# EID 101D: Final Presentation Script


Date: Tuesday, 14th December, Rose Auditorium 
Speakers: Bob, Jai. 

Slide Changer: Chris/Paul/Jimmy


Time limit: 4 mins 10 seconds 


Breakdown of stuff we have to do for a great grade (not script): 


0) Github- Chris, Jimmy, Paul - Guys, this is the most key element. Please upload ALL data in an organized manner to Github, since this IS what we’ll be graded on. Poor Github, awesome presentation = not an A. Basically just upload stuff in folders headed with the headers in the list below form 1-10, showing all the information that went into the stuff. Example: Brainstorming, Value Props etc. 
1. Kickstarter - JAI (Tuesday Deadline) - 
2. Landing Video (curbed to 45 sec - 1 min) CHRIS, PAUL (Wednesday, if possible). Talk to Varouzan Knouni, he worked on the video you guys saw on the backpack group the last class, which was really good and to the point. It had minimal animation, text to the point etc. Or go your own way. 
3. Landing Page (Website) - Remove Fake stuff as Petrillo said - BOB ( Tuesday, and it should be UP with a link to its access) 
4. Value Proposition and Pains/Gains Analysis Presented - ALREADY DONE
5. Preliminary Interviews in Times Square and the Highline - ALREADY DONE
6. Final Interview at John F Kennedy International Airport - ALREADY DONE
7. Final Presentation And Presentation Script - JAI, BOB (Jai - Script Monday, Bob - PPT/ Wednesday)
8. The Prototype Stage - ALREADY DONE
9. Explanation of why we went from Audio Navigation to SPOTRA (Emphasize on how we achieve the class goal of FAILING and then learning from our failures and succeeding).- ALREADY DONE
10. Cost Analysis of Price of Hotspot, Profit Margin, and Kickstarter Goal- Petrillo said it would be cool if we would do this, since none of the other groups have. If someone can simply do a simple analysis: Add up cost of raw materials, see the cost of a conventional wi-fi hotspot for a particular data plan, leave a decent margin for us, and give me a Kickstarter Funding Goal with No. of devices we plan to produce. - JIMMY/CHRIS/PAUL (Tuesday)


If this all goes according to plan, we should be done with EID 101D by Wednesday. 


 




Final Presentation Script Breakdown: Red Bob Blue Jai


1. Title, Picture, Introduction 
2. Explain where we started off with Audio Navigation, show the customer interview stats, disproving our hypothesis, lack of protected bike lanes and state that we failed at our first go. 
3. New Idea: SPOTRA, what is it, why we chose this? Due to customer’s being more interested in the wi-fi than using it for bike navigation. Interview Results Value Proposition Customer Segment 
4. Preliminary Interview data reveals MAJOR PAINS, also tell why they don’t go for conventional hotspot from typical carrier like AT&T and T-Mobile. and why they are not aware of hotspot existing. 
5. Gains from using our device - Go into features and description of device. Tell them why a good product-market fit exists (use this word specifically). 
6. Prototype stage- Rendered in Solidworks, and 3D printed and polished off. 
7. Explain how we’re still a “little” stuck at the infrastructure of the hotspot stage, and simply printed out the external casing for the sake of the final interview. 
8. JFK Airport Interview stats collected and Idea proved right, including tourist contact details gotten. 
9. Show them the Kickstarter ready to fire off, and the website developed for this purpose. 
10. We failed, we learned from our failures, and we succeeded, which was the original opening statement for this class. We learned how to develop a business outlook to engineering. Thank you. 




________________
Introduction (1&2 Bob) (30 seconds)
(SLIDE 1)
Good morning, I’m Bob and this is Jai, and we are SPOTRA.
(SLIDE 2)
Initially, we assumed that tourists would face difficulty in navigating while biking and looking at a phone at the same time. 
(SLIDE 3)
So, we decided to create an audio navigational device to solve their problem. 
(SLIDE 4) 
However, interviews at Highline and Times Square revealed that biking is not the main method of transportation: only 2 out of 9 tourists would choose to ride a bike even though 7 do at home. 
(SLIDE 5)
It was due to the lack of protected bike lanes. Therefore bike navigation is not a true pain of tourists.There is no product market fit 
(SLIDE 6)
Value Proposition & Origin (3&4 Jai) (30 seconds)
The most popular answer to “what are the major problems you face as a tourist in NYC?” has been the lack of access to reliable wi-fi. 
(SLIDE 7)
To test this, we interviewed people at the Highline, but received uninterested responses because most of them were older people who preferred physical maps.
(SLIDE 8)
So, we re-targeted people in the age group of 18-35, and, yes, lack of internet access was a big problem. In fact, 7 out of 10 people said they had to rely on free wi-fi in their hotels. 
(SLIDE 9)
Out of those 7 people, 2 did not know what a hotspot was while 5 chose not to buy one due to the long term contracts and deposits. This confirms the lack of internet access outside hotels.








Gains & Features & Prototype (5&6 Bob) (1.5 minutes)
(SLIDE 10)
After identifying the pain, we decided to design a portable wi-fi hotspot device, called, “SPOTRA” which stands for hotSPOT + TRAvel. 
(SLIDE 11)
We are targeting international visitors in NY staying for a short period
(SLIDE 12)
But, why bother making something that already exists in the market? 
(SLIDE 13)
T-Mobile indeed, provides a hotspot for $20 a month. 
(SLIDE 14) 
Relating back to the previous slide, However, it requires 2 year contracts and security deposits, which is a deal breaker for tourists. 
(SLIDE 15)
SPOTRA, on the other hand, requires no contracts and uses passport information as collateral instead of deposits, giving instant access to LTE data. So, how do we implement this? 
(SLIDE 16)
We, instead, provide a rental service. Tourists can pick up SPOTRA at the primary arrival terminals, choose a plan, use it and return it at a SPOTRA vending machine located at departure terminals
(SLIDE 17)
In addition, SPOTRA fits in pocket very well. It’s waterproof, and has quick charging ability. 
(SLIDE 18)
So, we prototyped our device on Solidworks, and 3D printed it. 
(SLIDE 19)
However, we did not create a functional prototype but only the exterior because the technology already exists, and is not a game changer. It’s more important to confirm the product-market fit. Meaning, we need to confirm their demand for our product before jumping into manufacturing. 


________________




Interview (1 min 10 seconds)
(SLIDE 20)
After crunching variables such as hardware, SIM card cost, profit margins and airport taxes; we gave SPOTRA a modest goal of 11000 USD on Kickstarter. We also created a video to describe the product and get support.
(SLIDE 21)
To complement our kickstarter, we established web presence through a landing page created using Github and HTML code. 
(SLIDE 22)
We conducted a final interview at JFK, as a test of our product market fit. We looked for people who gave the temporary visitor look- backpacks, maps, “I love NY” shirts.  
The rubric was simple - ask for a minute of their time, explain we’re not salesmen but simply asking for some feedback. 
(SLIDE 23)
Some of them turned out to be businessmen who, unsurprisingly, had access to a carrier due to their company, which paid for those services.
The majority of the tourists were well informed about the lengthy contracts or hefty deposits due to the lack of an SSN in carrier hotspots. We tried to keep them actively engaged in conversation regarding the features of the hotspot.  We showed them our hotspot, and let them fit it into their pockets conveniently. (Bob show the hotspot at this point). Backpackers especially loved the compact design, since it meant lesser burden for them. Families liked the feature of sharing the connection with other users.  We gave them our website and asked them to sign up to our mailing list for beta testing.  
(SLIDE 24)
Conclusion (Video & Kickstarter & Website) (30 seconds)
In conclusion, we developed a business outlook to engineering. We learned the procedures in identifying a problem, finding the target customers, laying down a value proposition, interviewing our audience, prototyping, designing a landing page and a Kickstarter, and finally testing the prototype’s need. 
(SLIDE 25)
We failed, we learned from our errors and finally found a product-market fit. Thank you!
---------------------------------------END OF SCRIPT AND EID 101D----------------------------
