INTERVIEWS AT THE AIRPORT

Interviewing at the airport is easier said than done. Everytime I showed someone the hotspot, I was careful to slowly pull it out of my pocket since it looks like one of those things cops throw that stuns people. 

So we looked for people who distinctively gave the temporary visitor look, such as holding a map or wearing a “I love NY” t-shirt. Luckily, most of the people we identified fell into this category. 

We followed a simple rubric for the interview process. Ask them if they’re free to talk for a minute, tell them you’re not salesman, but simply asking for some feedback, and gain their trust by identifying yourself as engineering students. 

Most people fell into two categories of temporary visitors: Businessmen or Tourists. 

Businessmen highlights: 

Unsurprisingly, most of them had access to wi-fi or a carrier due to their company, which paid for those services. A lot of them knew what a hotspot was due to the option on an iPhone, but didn’t know it comes in a separate physical form too. 

3 of them however, knew exactly what our device did and the paperwork required to get a carrier. We further probed whether they would be interested in the device on occasions when they weren’t here on official business, and they said they would gladly consider it since it would circumvent the required paperwork. 

Tourists however, were a whole different scenario. Apart from the ones who used Physical maps and the one who literally went to a Starbucks whenever he needed wi-fi, They knew what a hotspot was, but weren’t aware that US carriers sold them or did not want to undergo the paperwork. They were extremely surprised at the size of our device though, since it gave them the mobility they needed. We even let a couple of them fit it in their pockets. 

It was mostly tourists in the age group of 18-30 who were really interested in the hotspot idea, and especially in the mobility. 

Since a couple of them were so interested, we left them our website address to check out, and asked them to join the signing list.We even managed to get the phone number of one of the tourists, to contact him when the product goes live.

We interviewed 10-12 people over a time period of about 1 hour, individually going about. 

We had a great time at JFK, while Bob asked someone to take a picture of us, who then proceeded to use my phone to call up every family member of his for 15 minutes. 
